#The Glympse Adapter

##Overview

[ All below is incorrect, or mostly not to be believed. Leaving GVCA content for now as it will be relevent/reused for the most part (in addition to additional items) ]






===========================================
===========================================
===========================================
===========================================
ABANDON ALL HOPE, YE WHO ENTER
===========================================

The Glympse Viewer Client Adapter (GVCA) is a shim to be included with any web app wanting to directly host the Glympse viewer for
direct interaction with it, and to provide its public APIs over an iframe boundary when it is intended to be used in
conjunction with the [Glympse Viewer Host Adapater (GVHA)](https://github.com/Glympse/glympse-viewer-host-adapter) shim. 

In addition, the API bridge provided by the GVCA maintains a mostly equivalent adaption of the Glympse viewer API, save for some
differences in event handler registration and callback signatures. These (and all, really) will be described in detail. By default,
the exposed set of endpoints are those of the core Glympse Viewer API. Apps can also extend/override the GVCA endpoints with their
own methods, which are published to GVHA consumers during setup.


##GVCA Usage

Adapter usage is straight-forward, but does have a dependency on a recent version of [jQuery](http://jquery.com). jQuery aside, all
that is needed is to include the built `ViewClientAdapter` in your page, along with a bit of initialization and configuration to
get the adapter up and running:

	<script type="text/javascript" src="../dist/ViewClientAdapter-CURRENT_VERSION.min.js"></script>

Initialization, including inserting the viewer into your page, should be done after
the page onLoad event has fired:

	$(window).ready(function()
	{
		...
		... other init code
		...

		// Set up the adapter
		
		/* Global namespace */
		var adapter = new glympse.ViewClientAdapter(viewer_handler_instance, cfg);
		adapter.run($('#div_viewer_container'));   // Note jQuery object reference
	});

A couple of things to note here:
- `viewer_handler_instance` is a class instance to handle events and messages generated by the Glympse Viewer (described below)
- `cfg` is a simple Javascript object that defined both adapter and Glympse Viewer configuration (described below)
- `div_viewer_container` is the id of an HTML `div` element that already exists in the local DOM. The viewer will be inserted into this element.

For the `viewer_handler_reference` class, it must provide a public method with a signature of `notify(idMessage, messageData)`.
The `idMessage` parameter is a string that will be one of the values as defined in the `glympse.ViewClientAdapterDefines.MSG` object:
  - `MSG.ViewerInit`: Sent when the viewer has started its initialization process, but is still not quite ready for interaction. `messageData` should be ignored.
  - `MSG.ViewerReady`: Sent whenever the Glympse viewer is fully initialized and ready for interaction. `messageData` should be ignored.
  - `MSG.StateUpdate`: The most common message, this is generated whenever something interesting has changed with the observed invite. `messageData` defines the updated state identifier and its associated value (details given below).

The states specified in the `StateUpdate` event are as follows (ids are defined in the `glympse.VieweClientAdapterDefines.STATE` object):

- `STATE.Name`: User's name of the invite (`val` = string)
- `STATE.Avatar`: User's avatar image of the invite (`val` = URL string)
- `STATE.ETA`: Time remaining before user arrives at their destination (`val` = float representing time remaining, in seconds)
- `STATE.Arrived`: Flag indicating whether the user of the invite has approximately arrived at their destination (`val` = boolean)
- `STATE.Expired`: Flag indicating whether the watched Glympse has expired (`val` = boolean)
- `STATE.Phase`: String/Object of the invite's current phase (`val` = string/object)

GVCA configuration format has two main components -- one for the Glympse viewer, and one for the adapater itself:

	cfg =
	{
		viewer: {
			.. normal viewer config settings ..
		}
		, adapter: {
			  hideEvents: false
			, hideUpdates: false
			, viewerPollInterval: 5000
			, initialize: callbackInitialize
			, interfaces: { id0: callback0, id1: callback1, ..., idN: callbackN }
		}
	}

- `viewer` configuration is the normal Glympse viewer configuration object, described elsewhere. It should be noted that a valid invite/group/Twitter handler/Twitter topic setting should be set for normal viewer initialization
- `adapter` settings are as follows:
  - `hideEvents`: Don't send event-related messages back to the `viewer_handler_reference.notify()` method. Currently, this includes the `MSG.ViewerInit` and `MSG.ViewerReady` messages.
  - `hideUpdates`: Don't send `MSG.StateUpdate` messages back to the `viewer_handler_reference.notify()` method.
  - `viewerPollInterval`: Specifies (in ms) the time between viewer queries to detect for any state updates that would generate a `MSG.StateUpdate` message.
  - `initialize`: Method to call when the adapter has successully synced with a host adapater via iframe interface. Can be null.
  - `interfaces`: Allows for local overrides/extensions of advertised Glympse viewer endpoints. More details can be found in `Custom Endpoints`.

##Adapter Endpoints
All relevent Glympse Viewer APIs are available for use with the GVCA.

- `getValue(id)`: Returns the current value of the active Glympse invite, based on the given `id`:
  - `Arrived`: Returns a boolean based on the active Glympse's arrival state
  - `Avatar`: String URL pointing to the Glympse sender's avatar image
  - `Eta`: Current ETA (in seconds) of the Glympse sender (-1 if no destination is set)
  - `Expired`: Boolean idicating if the Glympse is still active
  - `Name`: Glympse sender's usr name
  - `Phase`: Any relevent information related to an invite's phase property (usually just a string, if not null)
- `addInvites(invites)`: Accepts a semi-colon-delimited string of invites to display on the map. Additional configuration options are passed via comma-delimited strings, per Viewer API spec (found elsewhere).
- `addGroups(groups)`: Accepts a semi-colon-delimited string of Glympse group names to display on the map. Additional configuration options are passed via comma-delimited strings, per Viewer API spec (found elsewhere).
- `addMarkers(cfgMarkers)`: Adds a collection of static markers on the map, with several options. See below for more information on describing a marker.
- `addTwitterTopics(twitterTopics)`: Accepts a semi-colon-delimited string of Twitter topics (# names) to display on the map, using newer Glympse invite codes or the latest location found in topic tweets. Additional configuration options are passed via comma-delimited strings, per Viewer API spec (found elsewhere).
- `addTwitterUsers(twitterHandles)`: Accepts a semi-colon-delimited string of Twitter user names (@ names) to display on the map, using newer Glympse invite codes or the latest location found in the user's tweets. Additional configuration options are passed via comma-delimited strings, per Viewer API spec (found elsewhere).
- `refreshView()`: Force a viewer layout update. Useful when resizing static `div` containers that do no kick off a `window.resize` event.
- `removeInvites(invites)`: Comma-delimited string of Glympse invite codes to remove from the map.
- `setPadding(padding)`: Used to offset the map "center" when determining map zoom based on active Glympses and destinations/POI. Effectively makes the centering view-port smaller than the map. Currently only affects the left portion of the map. The `padding` parameter can be either an integrer, or a 4-integer array, specifying [top, right, bottom, left] paddings (i.e. idential to CSS-style offset specifications).
- `generateRoute(cfgRoute)`: Adds a route path to the map, based on passed settings (see below for options). Returns a route object with the following API:
   - `run(callback)`: Initiates route load and adds it to the map
   - `setVisibility(bool)`: Show/hides route
   - `getLoaded()`: Current load status
   - `getVisibility()`: Current visibility status
- `getMap()`: Returns a reference to the HERE map control used by the Glympse viewer. This reference is suitable for adding additional custom overlays in conjunction with the Glympse viewer's UI components. For more information, please refer to the [HERE Javascript APIs](https://developer.here.com/javascript-apis) documentation.
- `ignoreDestinations(bool)`: Hides current invite destinations. Returns a list of all affected destination objects.
- `updateSetting(val)`: Updates a viewer setting. Format = `{ id: setting_id, val: value_to_set }`. Only a few settings are accepted:
  - `attributionOffset`: Changes the vertical offset (from the bottom) of the map provider attribution. `val` = pixel offset from the bottom.
  - `zoomMax`: Sets max zoom level of the map for auto-zoom. `val` = Max integer zoom level.


#Custom Marker Configuration
For the `addMarkers(cfgMarkers)` API, the `cfgMarkers` object is of the following format:

	cfgMarkers = { showInfo: true|false, markers: [ marker_0_cfg, marker_1_cfg, ..., marker_N_cfg ] };

Each marker configuration is of the following format:

	marker_N_cfg = { //ext: { path: image_url, id: null, w: width, h: height  }	// do not use if using icon setting
					 icon: { id: icon_id_from_loaded_spritesheet }	// for internal
					, lat: latitude
					, lng: longitude
					, info: text_to_display // use \n in the text to force a line break
					, track: true|false		// include this marker in map centering logic
					, link: url_to_load_if_marker_clicked
					, style: {
					      fontFamily: available_font_family
						, color: CSS_color
						, fontSize: font_size
						, maxWidth: max_width_in_pixels (forcing word wrap)
						, background: null|CSS_color
						, textMargin: margin_in_pixels
						}
					};

#Custom Route Options
For the `addRoute(cfgRoute)` API, the following configuration object is used:

	cfgRoute = { start: [ lat, lng ]
				, end: [ lat, lng ]
				, useNubs: true|false	// Add nubs to the start/end points
				, nubSize: 6			// Nub radius
				, nubStroke: 0.1		// Nub stroke
				, style: { strokeColor: 'rgba(255,0,0,0.8)' }
			   };

##Custom Endpoints
While not usuaully necessary, the GVCA allows for extending and/or overriding the default set of endpoints exposed by the Glympse
viewer if you need to allow for additional functionality aside from that provided by the default Glympse viewer. As noted above,
the format for specifying custom endpoints is in the adapter's `interfaces` configuration setting:

	cfg =
	{
		viewer: {
			.. normal viewer config settings ..
		}
		, adapter: {
			.. other adapter settings ..
			, interfaces: { id0: callback0, id1: callback1, ..., idN: callbackN }
		}
	}

The `interfaces` object is an optional collection of methods to be made available for GVHA consumers, or to override existing Glympse
viewer methods. Each item in the collection is decribed in the following manner:

- `id`: The name of the interface to advertise to GVHA consumers upon initial adapter setup.
- `callback`: The method to execute when called from the GVHA consumer.

For `id`, if the name is the same as one of the pre-defined endpoints (listed above), the default implementation is replaced with this
custom version. However, the default is still available via the id with the same name, but with a `base_` prefix (i.e. `base_getValue`
to reach the Glympse viewer's implementation).

Almost any valid Javascript name can be used, save for the default public method names of the GVCA. To be safe, prefix the name of your
custom endpoints with a unique name (i.e. "my" would work wonderfully).

For now, your customized endpoints should return some value directly, if expected by the caller. The current version of the GVCA does
not support deferred responses. In the next version, a Promise-based return value will allow for async handling for delayed results (i.e.
Ajax-based calls).

And for reference, the test app pair of `index-dist.html` and `test/app.js` show an example custom endpoint of `customMethodExample`.
This can be easily extended and/or enhanced for your needs.


##Preview
A sample of setting up a GVCA-based webapp can be found in `index-test.html`, which leverages a sample test app found under the
`src/test/` directory in this repo. It demonstrates a simple `viewer_handler_reference` class, along with a default viewer initialization.

`index-dist.html` demonstrates the use of the GVCA with it's GVHA counterpart. However, some setup is required to alias the
local machine to point to the `indext-test.html` through a localhost alias of test.localhost.


##Installation

The recommended method for using the GVCA component is with the build GlympseViewerClientAdapter-CURRENT_VERSION.min.js file
found in the `builds/` directory of this repo. Usually, the highest version is the one to use.


##Project Notes
This project leverages [oasis.js](https://github.com/tildeio/oasis.js) and [rsvp.js](https://github.com/tildeio/rsvp.js) for
hosting and communication semantics. Unfortunately, due to each of their development approaches, a snapshot of their transpiled
Require.js-based sources must be included with this project to properly use their functionality. For future maintenance, the
latest commits used in this snapshot are `4c657d15` and `5cfda622` of the `tildeio/oasis.js` and `tildeio/rsvp.js` repos
respectively.
